---
layout: post
title: ""
permalink: http://openconnecto.me/2011/09/18/578/index.html
post_id: 578
categories: 
- Primary Navigation
---

References
The number of publications on connectomes and connectomics is rapidly increasing.  We provide here a growing list of publications which align with our open initiative, that is, either the data and/or code is open.
Connectomes
Bock DD, Lee WC, Kerlin AM, Andermann ML, Hood G, Wetzel AW, Yurgenson S, Soucy ER, Kim HS, Reid RC. Network anatomy and in vivo physiology of visual cortical neurons. Nature 471, 177-182 (10 March 2011). article, pdf, suppl.

Anderson JR, Jones BW, Watt CB, Shaw MV, Yang JH, Demill D, Lauritzen JS, Lin Y, Rapp KD, Mastronarde D, Koshevoy P, Grimm B, Tasdizen T, Whitaker R, Marc RE. Exploring the retinal connectome. Molecular vision 17 355-365 (2011). article, data.

Biswal BB, Mennes M, Zuo XN, Gohel S, Kelly C, Smith, SM, Beckmann, CF, Adelstein, JS,  Buckner RL, Colcomb S, and others. Toward discovery science of human brain function. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 107:10 4734-4740 (2010). article, data.

Image processing

Currently, no image processing algorithms for EM connectome data have been made available ;(  We will change this soon.
Data collection
Kasthuri N, Hayworth K, Tapia JC, Schalek R, Nundy S, Lichtman JW. The brain on tape: Imaging an Ultra-Thin Section Library (UTSL). Society for Neuroscience (2009).

Hayworth, KJ, Kasthuri, N, Schalek, R and Lichtman, JW. Automating the Collection of Ultrathin Serial Sections for Large Volume TEM Reconstructions. Microscopy and Microanalysis 12: 86-87 (2006).

Anderson JR, Jones BW, Yang J-H, Shaw MV, Watt CB, et al.  A Computational Framework for Ultrastructural Mapping of Neural Circuitry. PLoS Bio 7(3):  e1000074.  doi:10.1371/journal.pbio.1000074 (2009). article.
Viewers
Anderson JR, Mohammed S, Grimm B, Jones BW, Koshevoy P, Tasdizen T, Whitaker R, Marc R. The Viking viewer for connectomics: scalable multi-user annotation and summarization of large volume data sets. J Microscopy: 241:13-28 (2011). article, software
Web services
Saalfeld S, Cardona A, Hartenstein V, Tomancák P. CATMAID: Collaborative Annotation Toolkit for Massive Amounts of Image Data. Bioinformatics, 25(19), 1984–1986 (2009). article, pdf

Pipelines for data processing

Gray WR, Bogovic JA, Vogelstein JT,  Landman BA, Prince JL, Vogelstein RJ. Magnetic Resonance Connectome Automated Pipeline. Submitted to IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society.


Gerhard S, Daducci A, Lemkaddem A, Meuli R, Thiran J-P, Hagmann P. The Connectome Viewer Toolkit: an open source framework to manage, analyze and visualize connectomes. Front. Neuroinform 5:3 (2011). article.

Reviews
Lichtman JW, Sanes JR. Ome sweet ome: what can the genome tell us about the connectome? Curr Opin Neurobiol Jun;18(3):346-53 (2008). article, pdf